# Matthew Jibben

## Generating Synthetic Data

Requires: 
 * python 3
 * nltk
    * wordnet
 * googletrans
 * pandas

run ```data-prepare.py```

The output will be saved periodically as it is generated

## How the data is generated

The data is currently generated by using a mix of translating the text and replacing words with synonyms. 
First, translation is done by using the *googletrans* library, and having it translate the english text to multiple languages before returning to english.
Then, word replacement is done by using the *nltk.wordnet* package. Given a sentence, we find and replace a random word (or words) with their synonym.
For both the translation and word replacement section, we can scale how much change we want to occur. 
For translation, we can control how many languages we want to translate to before returning to english (between 1-8 set languages).
For word replacement, we can choose n many word replacements. Each word replacement is random, so it is possible that the same word will be chose multiple times.

Using those methods, we can automate data creation. The original data is taken from the STS-B dataset, but only sample sentences are taken.
We generate a word pair by first deciding how many translations and word replacements we want to happen. 
If there are only a few, the word pair will be generated with a high similarity score (4-5). 
If there are many, the word pair will be generated with a low similarity score (1-2).

 


## Future work

This dataset only includes two of the methods I have worked on, more data will be included in the future. 
More data is needed for paraphrase detection. I have identified 3 other methods for future work:

### Method 1
Use existing sentences and switch subjects to result in similar sentences that are not a paraphrase. For example:

“Jack paid John” -> “John paid Jack”

For this, we can label words and phrases with their POS to find where we can swap parts of the text. 

### Method 2

Replace words with their antonym to get texts that are similar but have opposite meaning. For example:

“Sarah was angry with John” -> “Sarah was happy with John”

### Method 3

Negate words in a text to get texts that are similar but have opposite meaning. For example:

“Alex wanted to date Jess” -> “Alex did not want to date Jess”
